# SAR-target-recognition
This repository contains the image samples presented in Section 2.2 and Section 4.2 in the paper "Target recognition in SAR images by deep learning with training data augmentation" (by Geng et al., Sensors, 2023)

## Overview
Since the backgrounds for the training and testing images in the MSTAR database are highly-correlated, carrying out performance evaluation for the SAR ATR algorithms based solely on the limited samples from the MSTAR dataset is potentially biased. To evaluate the impact of the clutter background on SAR target classification, we leverage the clutter data in the MSTAR dataset, which are segmented into 1,159 clutter chips of size 128 ×128 and divided into two distinctive pools for training and testing, respectively. New training and test image samples are generated by implementing the clutter transfer technique, based on which the robustness of the target classification algorithms in clutters with different levels of homogeneity is evaluated. Simulation results show that the target classification performance of the existing algorithms degrades noticeably if we employ the original MSTAR image samples for training and apply clutter transfer to the test samples only. However, by introducing training data with various clutter backgrounds, the algorithm is robust against the background changes of the test samples.

## Data Description
For those who are interested in our work and would like to regenerate the simulation results we presented in Section 4.2, four .zip files are provided here. The SAR images corresponding to elevation angles of 15° and 17° are used for network training and testing, respectively.
1) The images contained in“Original MSTAR Images.zip”are for the case that both the training and the test samples are un-touched. 
2) The images contained in“Train_OR_Test_CT.zip”are for the case that the clutter backgrounds for the test samples are randomly modified with the clutter transfer technique while the original SAR image samples from the MSTAR dataset are used for network training. Simulation results show that having been trained with samples with homogeneous clutter backgrounds, all the networks experience dramatic performance degradation when tested against samples with various clutter backgrounds.
3) The images contained in“Train_CT_Test_CT”are for the case that the clutter backgrounds of both the training and test samples are randomly chosen. Our simulation results show that by introducing training data with various clutter back-grounds, the classification accuracies provided by all the networks bounced from the range between 50%-60% back to higher than 90%. 
4) The images contained in“Train_CT×2_Test_CT” are for the case that the clutter background of each training sample is altered in two different ways, which increases the number of training samples to twice of its original quantity. Our simulation results show that by doubling the training data samples with the clutter transfer technique, the classification accuracies provided by all the networks become approximately identical to the baseline case, i.e. where the original MSTAR images are used. 
Through these experiments, the importance of taking into consideration of the impact of the clutter backgrounds for network training and test when addressing the SAR ATR problem becomes obvious.


## Citation

If you find this useful in your research, please consider citing:

    @article{Geng2023Target,
      title={Target Recognition in SAR Images by Deep Learning with Training Data Augmentation},
      author={Geng, Zhe and Xu, Ying and Wang, Bei-Ning and Yu, Xiang and Zhu, Dai-Yin and Zhang, Gong},
      journal={Sensors},
      year={2023}
    }
